Hello everyone and welcome to the time series analysis section of the course.
It's now time to shift our focus to dealing specifically of time series data.
A lot of financial information is going to come in the form of some value plotted against a time series
such as the price of a stock plotted against the day of that price.
Now we've already learned a little bit of how to work with pand those with time series.
Now we're going to shift our focus on techniques and analysis techniques used with time series data.
While the concepts presented in this section of the course are very important.
In general we may actually not use them that often when working directly with algorithmic trading models.
In fact one of our main reasons for covering some of these topics is so that in future sections of the
course we can show why using some of these analysis techniques on stock information or financial securities
information is actually not a good idea.
So it can be really tempting to use some of these techniques on financial data but sometimes it's actually
not a good idea.
But to really understand why that is.
We first need to understand those techniques themselves and I'm kind of specifically referring to the
Arema models.
We're going to cover later on in this section so as an overall approach to this section you should try
to get a higher level understanding of some of these concepts but don't get too concerned that much
with some of the details as far as future sections of the course are concerned if you decide you want
to do a model for some other non-financial data sets that do have to do if a time series then you know
these Arema models some of these PTSD composition models that will go over will be really useful in
other fields.
But as far as we're concerned for future sections of the course you don't need to worry about getting
bogged down too much in some of those nitty gritty details.
So in this section we'll going to discuss the following topics.
We'll start off with just the basics of a time series.
What are different attributes of a time series things to look out for than we're going to introduce
a new Python library called stat's models.
Such models is probably the most popular library in Python for actually working with time series data
and creating a models for time series data.
Then we'll discuss it models that's like an error trend season model and how to decompose a time series
into those three specific topics and then we'll discuss E.W. a.
Those are exponentially weighted moving average models.
Those will be useful later on.
And then finally we'll discuss Arema models that is auto regressive integrated moving average models.
So when I specifically refer to not worrying about some of those details of the models I'm kind of really
specifically referring to the Arema model itself.
We're going to go kind of a lot of detail for the Arema model and it is a really useful model for time
series but often it doesn't work well financial and securities data and we'll understand why.
Once you understand how the Arema model works.
All right let's get started.
I'll see you in the next lecture where we begin to discuss time series basics.